Add-NcCifsSymlink
-----------------

### Synopsis
Create a new CIFS symbolic link path mapping from a UNIX symlink to a target CIFS path.

---

### Description

Create a new CIFS symbolic link path mapping from a UNIX symlink to a target CIFS path. This symbolic link path mapping will be effective on symbolic links that have a prefix match with the value of 'unix-path'. e.g.: if the value of 'unix-path' is '/usr/local/' and there exists a symbolic link on the file system at '/home/user/link' which points to '/usr/local/share/dest'. If a CIFS client accesses the symbolic link 'link', this entry of path mapping would have a prefix match '/usr/local/'. The CIFS client would be redirected to the location pointed to by this path mapping's 'CifsServer', 'ShareName' and 'CifsPath' fields.

---

### Related Links
* [Get-NcCifsSymlink](Get-NcCifsSymlink)

* [Remove-NcCifsSymlink](Remove-NcCifsSymlink)

* [Set-NcCifsSymlink](Set-NcCifsSymlink)

---

### Examples
> Example 1

Add-NcCifsSymlink -UnixPath /usr/user/ -ShareName cifsvol1 -CifsPath /cifsvol1/user/
Add a CIFS symlink with unix path /usr/user/ and CIFS path /cifsvol1/user/

CifsServer           ShareName            UnixPath                       CifsPath                       Locality
----------           ---------            --------                       --------                       --------
CIFS01               cifsvol1             /usr/user/                     /cifsvol1/user/                local

---

### Parameters
#### **UnixPath**
This field specifies the UNIX path prefix to be matched for the mapping. If the prefix of the target path in the symbolic link matches against this field, this entry of symbolic link path mapping would be used. The path is a UTF-8 string and supports localization. The path must start and end with a forward slash ('/'). For example '/usr/local/'.

|Type      |Required|Position|PipelineInput        |
|----------|--------|--------|---------------------|
|`[String]`|true    |1       |true (ByPropertyName)|

#### **ShareName**
This field specifies the CIFS share name on the destination CIFS server to which the symbolic link is mapped. This is a UTF-8 string and supports localization.

|Type      |Required|Position|PipelineInput        |
|----------|--------|--------|---------------------|
|`[String]`|true    |2       |true (ByPropertyName)|

#### **CifsPath**
This field specifies the CIFS path on the destination to which the symbolic link maps. The final path is generated by concatenating the CIFS server name, the share name, the cifs-path and the remaining path in the symbolic link left after the prefix match. This value is specified by using a UNIX-style path name. The trailing forward slash is required for the full path name to be properly interpreted. This is a UTF-8 string and supports localization.

|Type      |Required|Position|PipelineInput        |
|----------|--------|--------|---------------------|
|`[String]`|true    |3       |true (ByPropertyName)|

#### **CifsServer**
This field specifies the destination CIFS server name for the mapping to which the symbolic link is mapped. The default is the local CIFS server. The field needs to be specified if the locality of the symbolic link is 'widelink'. This can be either a DNS name, NetBIOS name or an IP address. If a DNS name or a NetBIOS name are specified, the CIFS client configuration should be such that it is capable of resolving the CIFS server name to the correct IP address.

|Type      |Required|Position|PipelineInput        |
|----------|--------|--------|---------------------|
|`[String]`|false   |named   |true (ByPropertyName)|

#### **Locality**
This field specifies whether the CIFS symbolic link is a local link or wide link. A local symbolic link maps to the local CIFS share, whereas a wide symbolic link maps to any CIFS share on the network. If the CIFS server matches the VServer's NetBIOS name then the default value is local otherwise widelink. Possible values:
"local"     - Share On This VServer
"widelink"  - Share On Another CIFS Server

|Type      |Required|Position|PipelineInput        |
|----------|--------|--------|---------------------|
|`[String]`|false   |named   |true (ByPropertyName)|

#### **HomeDirectory**

|Type      |Required|Position|PipelineInput        |
|----------|--------|--------|---------------------|
|`[Switch]`|false   |named   |true (ByPropertyName)|

#### **VserverContext**
Vserver to which to direct this command.  If the currently connected controller (as embodied by an NcController object) represents a cluster, there are multiple means to address commands to one of its vservers.  Either set the Vserver field on the NcController object to direct all subsequent commands to that vserver, or supply the VserverContext parameter to an individual cmdlet.  Only cmdlets which may be invoked on vservers offer the VserverContext parameter.

|Type      |Required|Position|PipelineInput|Aliases|
|----------|--------|--------|-------------|-------|
|`[String]`|false   |named   |false        |VS     |

#### **Controller**
A clustered Data ONTAP controller to receive this cmdlet, as embodied by an NcController object.  This parameter is returned by the Connect-NcController cmdlet.  If not specified, the value in the global variable CurrentNcController is used.  In the latter case, if CurrentNcController contains a collection of NcController objects, this cmdlet is invoked on each controller in succession.

|Type              |Required|Position|PipelineInput                 |Aliases                          |
|------------------|--------|--------|------------------------------|---------------------------------|
|`[NcController[]]`|false   |named   |true (ByValue, ByPropertyName)|Filer<br/>Server<br/>NcController|

#### **InformationAction**

Valid Values:

* SilentlyContinue
* Stop
* Continue
* Inquire
* Ignore
* Suspend

|Type                |Required|Position|PipelineInput|Aliases|
|--------------------|--------|--------|-------------|-------|
|`[ActionPreference]`|false   |named   |false        |infa   |

#### **InformationVariable**

|Type      |Required|Position|PipelineInput|Aliases|
|----------|--------|--------|-------------|-------|
|`[String]`|false   |named   |false        |iv     |

#### **PipelineVariable**

|Type      |Required|Position|PipelineInput|Aliases|
|----------|--------|--------|-------------|-------|
|`[String]`|false   |named   |false        |pv     |

#### **ZapiRetryCount**
The number of times to retry commands that return with errors that may succeed after a retry.

|Type     |Required|Position|PipelineInput|
|---------|--------|--------|-------------|
|`[Int32]`|false   |named   |false        |

---

### Inputs

---

### Outputs
* DataONTAP.C.Types.Cifs.CifsSymlink

---

### Notes
Category: cifs
API: cifs-symlink-create
Family: vserver

---

### Syntax
```PowerShell
Add-NcCifsSymlink [-UnixPath] <String> [-ShareName] <String> [-CifsPath] <String> [-CifsServer <String>] [-Locality <String>] [-HomeDirectory] [-VserverContext <String>] [-Controller 
```
```PowerShell
<NcController[]>] [-InformationAction <ActionPreference>] [-InformationVariable <String>] [-PipelineVariable <String>] [-ZapiRetryCount <Int32>] [<CommonParameters>]
```
